You are listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, click the link in the show notes or go to fbcwf.org.
I'll go ahead and preface before the students know this, but for me, I never want to be
the pastor that acts as if he has it all together.
I'm very open and honest and transparent, almost to a fault with just my life and my journey.
And so there'll be a combination of we're gonna read the Bible.
That is the primary thing, but I'll always like to relate it to real life situations or circumstances.
And so there'll be a little bit of vulnerability.
And with that, it kind of goes both ways.
I'm gonna ask that you lean in as well.
Okay, and so this morning I want to start with just kind of a reflection over my life, if you will, where I think back over my faith journey and my walk with Jesus and lots of highs and lots of lows.
Anybody with me on that?
And when I was thinking about today's message, we'll walk through the life of Joseph, but when I think through the life of Joseph and then the context of what we are going to learn this morning, I started thinking back over my life and what I realized is I've got a lot of hurt in my life.
There's a bunch of moments where I walk through devastation or heartache or hurt or bitterness or unforgiveness, lots of highs and lots of lows.
But when I think about where I ended up and how I got there, I think it's important for us to look into the mirror and ask ourselves,
What took place to get to where I am now?
Let's go back to the beginning.
And what I have found to be a common theme in my life, and maybe you can relate to this, is oftentimes when I'm in the middle of a situation, a circumstance, a moment of suffering, or a place that I thought I'd never end up in, I'm so consumed with trying to get out of that present that I overlook the purpose in which God is trying to show me.
And this morning, the title of our message and the one thing, students, this is your big idea.
You ready for the big idea?
The one central thing this morning that we're gonna look at is this.
God's purpose for your future begins with your present faithfulness.
And today you may be walking in here this morning and you're wrestling with maybe an addiction.
Or maybe you're wrestling with some financial instability, maybe a divorce or diagnosis.
I don't know what it is this morning, what your present looks like, but I'm gonna ask you, you would lean in and you would seek the purpose of God and be faithful right where he has you.
So this morning we're gonna be in the Old Testament, and so I'm gonna ask that you return to Genesis chapter 39.
Wonderful, love it, I was ready.
Genesis 39 is where we are going to camp out, but I'm gonna give you some context that leads up to where we will be this morning.
And so Genesis 37, we're going to learn about the life of Joseph.
Now, for context, I wanna break down the life of Joseph leading up to this moment.
And here's why.
I shared this this weekend, but my wife grew up, she was an atheist for 26 years of her life.
So when she was radically saved, she sits in a church service very much like this, and the preacher begins to talk about things like, I know you already know this story, or I know I don't need to go into detail because you already heard this before, and she immediately felt disconnected and lesser than.
So what I wanna do is, oh, you may have heard some of these things.
I wanna tell it because there may be somebody in here that's never heard the story.
And what we're gonna see in the life of Joseph is there's lots of highs and lots of lows.
Joseph's world changes many times, yet despite his present, Joseph always chose to remain faithful and to glorify God in his present circumstance.
And what we will see is God's plan begins to unfold.
And so Joseph was a son.
He had 11 brothers and he had the gift of interpreting dreams.
Now, one of the things that we learned about Joseph in scripture is he was dad's favorite.
Okay?
And I have no problem with that because I'm the baby of the family.
Any babies in the family in the house?
Come on now.
You are my people and you are loved.
Any odor siblings in the house?
Okay?
Whatever.
You can judge us all you want to.
All right?
You think you're better than us, but we learn a lot about, oh, I'm so sorry.
This happens all the time in your life.
Any middle children in the house?
Gosh, I'll always forget that one.
I'm so sorry.
I know you'll feel overlooked.
It's also why I have a healthy fear of my wife.
She's a middle child.
She comes in a little, anyways, moving on people, moving on.
But we learned that Joseph is actually the favorite of his, of his dad.
And we see this where he actually gave him this multicolored coat that you maybe you've heard about.
And, and because of this, there's some animosity and some tension.
And when he has these dreams, and he begins to interpret these dreams, he comes to his older brothers who already don't really like, not sure how I feel about Joseph.
And he brings this dream to them, and he's in this moment, and I don't know how it actually played out, based upon their response.
I don't think he handled it too well, just to be honest with you.
But he comes to them, and he's like, hey, you're never gonna believe this.
But I had some dreams, and they're pretty incredible.
And I just want to share them with the family, if y'all would mind sitting down and listening for a second.
And he goes on and he explains, in my dreams, there's a moment where you are all bowing at my feet.
And I'm ruling over you.
And it's unbelievable.
And I felt like I needed to share that.
And all the older siblings in the house said, you know, like, here we go again.
It did not land very well.
And the reason I know it doesn't land very well is the response in Genesis 37, verse eight.
Don't turn there.
I'll read it to you and you'll pick up pretty quickly.
The response of his brothers is this, are you really going to reign over us?
Are you really going to rule us?
So they hated him even more because of his dream.
I think that word hatred is a very big deal in the life of Joseph.
They hated Joseph.
But then as we fast forward in 37, we go to verse 18, the animosity towards Joseph comes to an all-time high when Joseph is going out into the fields to check on their brothers.
Now multiple times he has gone and checked on his brothers, but scripture actually says that he would bring a bad report of them to their father, meaning Joseph is a tattletale and nobody likes a rat, okay?
And so they see him coming.
And when they see him coming in the distance,
They gather together and they have this conversation.
Verse 18 says, they saw him in the distance and before he had reached them, they plotted to kill him.
They said to one another, oh, look, here comes that dream expert.
They're mocking him.
So now come on, let's kill him and throw him into one of the pits.
We will take his coat, we'll dip it in blood and we'll say to our father, a vicious animal has ripped him apart.
Now Reuben, the older brother, I do think there's wisdom with older siblings, okay, thank you.
But Reuben's like, I'm not sure that's a good idea.
So Reuben interjects and they decide that the second best option other than killing him was to sell him into slavery.
And that brings me to a point where a lot of y'all think you have dysfunctional families.
May I encourage you this morning?
This is a dysfunctional family, okay?
Can we disagree on that?
I know what your Thanksgiving's look like, but I think it's gonna be all right.
They sold their brother into slavery and it just brings us to this reminder that God's purpose for your future begins with your present faithfulness.
Because Joseph's new president has gone from highly favored son to a slave in a land that he's not from.
So if you're in Genesis 39, I wanna hear you say yeah?
The adults will pick up in a second.
Genesis 39 starting in verse two, here we go.
It says the Lord was with Joseph.
And it became a successful man serving in the household of his Egyptian master.
When his master saw that the Lord was with him and that the Lord made everything he did successful, Joseph found favor.
Somebody say favor this morning.
He found favor with this master and became his personal attendant.
Potiphar also put him in charge of his household and placed him, placed all that he owned under his authority.
From the time that he put him in charge of his household and all that he owned, the Lord blessed the Egyptians house because of Joseph.
The Lord's blessing was on all that he owned in his house and in the fields.
He left all that he owned owned under Joseph's authority.
He did not concern himself with anything except the food he ate.
The first thing I want to point out to you this morning, I encourage you to write this down is this, your present faithfulness should reveal God's glory to others.
Your present faithfulness should reveal God's glory to those that you interact with.
The way I word it is where you live, where you work, and where you play are people noticing your faithfulness to Jesus.
Now we read in here, and I had you repeat this back to me, where Joseph found favor with God, and he gained influence in his present.
And because he found favor and he gained influence with those around him,
and he understood that his present situation or place was slavery, he actually began to rise in stature.
It's unbelievable how you can go from being a slave to all of a sudden you're like in charge of multiple things and it's interesting.
But when I read stories like this and I read scripture and I see moments like this, I think it's important for us to stop and to reflect on our own lives for a moment.
And so my question for you this morning is,
is this or something I want to speak over you this morning is this, God has placed you where you are for a purpose.
And He's giving you influence for a reason.
Now whether you realize it or not, it has nothing to do with stature, it has nothing to do with upbringing, it has nothing to do with financial stability or instability.
We all have influence.
It's whether or not you want to see the influence you have and step into it.
Now we understand that some influence for positive and some influence for negative, but the reality is we are all born leaders.
It's how we choose to lead that makes the difference.
So you've all been given influence for a reason.
The question is, are you giving God glory where you are?
Are you trying so hard to get out of your current situation, place, or circumstance that you're missing God's purpose?
What we learned from Joseph is that it was never about himself.
Isn't it interesting that if you read through every single aspect of Joseph's life, multiple, multiple chapters, way too much, and I'm stretching it.
We talked about this morning.
It's hard to get this many chapters in a 30 minute thing.
But if you go back and you read all of Joseph's life, you never will see where it was about him.
He never falls victim to his circumstance.
So it makes us stop and think, how do you and I do this?
How do you and I have a reaction like this?
I think it's important.
to understand what I just said.
He doesn't fall victim.
He doesn't sit and sulk in the misery or in the misunderstanding.
And I'm not gonna lie, this is super convicting to me.
And for me, I'm the wet spaghetti noodle of emotion in our family, okay?
Anybody with me?
All right.
Typically that's the wife in the relationship.
I can own that.
All right.
Uh, my wife does anesthesia for a living.
And so if she's, uh, all over the place, uh, it doesn't end well for some of the people.
Okay.
And so she's a very, she compartmentalizes things.
She's very analytical.
She's very stable.
I'm just like, Oh my gosh, everything's falling apart.
All right.
And I can admit that, but because of that, the thing that frustrates her most is I will, I'll be victim to a lot of things that happen in my life.
And I make it all about me and it drops her nuts.
But the reality is that's my personality.
And what I do in those moments is I place it all upon myself.
And what happens is I try to figure things out myself.
And not even understanding what I'm doing, I actually become a lower G God in my life.
And I push capital G God aside and say, God, I'm trying to figure this out without you.
And I try to be God in my life and I don't allow the God to show me what he's trying to do in my life.
And I make it all about myself.
And so this morning I want to ask, like, when your face was something like this, how do you respond?
Because for me, transparency here, I like to ask the question, why?
You ever been there?
God, why are you doing this to me?
God, why are you allowing this situation to happen?
God, why did you not allow that to happen the way that we thought it was going to turn out in a place all of it upon me?
But what happens is we push God aside and we rob him of the glory that he's trying to get in and through us and our suffering.
That's why I think the title of our message is so important that God's purpose for our future begins with His present faithfulness because our outlook shifts when we think this way.
God, I don't understand it.
I mean, never fully understand why this side of heaven, but God, I'm gonna trust you in the midst of it.
I'm gonna choose to worship you even though I do not fully understand.
One thing I've heard long ago is this, that God never wastes a hurt.
And I've seen that be true in my life.
Our struggles are all part of the plan.
But your present may not always be a place.
Joseph's place is slavery.
It could also be a circumstance.
And I want to fast forward in Genesis 39 verse six.
Look at this says we're going to see a slight shift.
So, so Joseph is, is basically head of like the main slave in Potiphar's household.
And then something out of the ordinary happens.
Verse six says this.
Now, Joseph was well built and handsome.
You're welcome, Joseph.
I said this in the first service, I'll say it again.
There's lots of things that I would like to be written about me if I were ever to be written in the Bible, which will never happen, but if it were to be written and it said, Will was well built and handsome, I'd be okay with that.
All right, people?
All right.
But it says that he's well built and handsome, and why is that in there?
It's to teach us a really important lesson here.
Because, yes, he was well built and handsome,
But there was somebody that noticed and was attracted to Joseph, does anybody know who it was?
Potiphar's wife.
You were on it, my man.
You said that so fast.
That was good.
You've read this before?
All right.
Teach us something.
Potiphar's wife also thought that he was well-built in handsome.
Now, this is his master's wife, a very powerful woman who probably gets anything that she wants and tells her husband exactly how it's going to go, all right?
So in her mind, she says, here's a slave, he's well built handsome, I'm just going to advance at him.
And what we read in verse seven is, after some time, his master's wife looked longingly at Joseph, which to me sounds a little creepy.
She's just like watching him.
This is weird.
Isn't that weird, y'all?
She's just, there's Joseph.
And so he's watched, looked longingly at Joseph.
And then she comes and she says, hey, I want you to sleep with me.
He's in a, he's in a pretty awkward situation, right?
but listen to his response.
Verse nine, how could I do this immense evil?
And how could I sin against God?
He calls it what it is.
He calls it evil and he calls it sinful.
And he says, I will not sin against my God.
And I think it's important for us to hear this this morning because a lot of times we want to minimize the sin in our life.
And what we want to do is we want to kind of keep that sin around and we'll creep up to the temptation.
We'll creep up to the sin.
We know that it's something that we're not supposed to engage in, but instead of doing what Joseph does and running from it, we keep it around just a little bit.
And what happens is we think that we're not going to tiptoe over the line, but when the sin is still around and we leave it and we don't rebuke it in the name of Jesus, then what happens is Satan lures us in.
But Joseph, because of his belief, because of his faith, because of his trust in the one true God, he does what?
He runs.
Call sin for what it is.
It is evil.
He runs.
Now, she is embarrassed.
She's humiliated.
This is a powerful woman.
She probably gets whatever she wants.
This slave rejects her.
He runs from her, and then she goes to her husband and says that Joseph came after her, advanced at her sexually, and
Potiphar obviously believes his wife, right?
So what happens to Joseph?
He's put in jail.
He's put in prison.
And we all go, what is going on?
He does the right thing.
He flees from sin, but yet now he's in prison.
And we see Joseph go from highly favored son, put into slavery, highly favored slave.
Now he's in prison.
Do you ever feel like you can't catch a break?
You ever been in the seasons where you feel like you're doing the right thing, but you keep feeling like bad things keep happening?
One of the greatest questions that I'm asked as a pastor is, why do bad things happen to good people?
Have you ever wondered that or had somebody asked that?
It's a difficult question to answer.
But Joseph is living in this right now, where he's literally doing the right thing, but he gets all of these, the situation.
And here, let me just encourage all of us this morning, is you never do the wrong thing, making the right choice.
You never do the wrong thing, making the right choice, but we have to trust that even in the midst of us doing the right thing and bad things happen, that God is still faithful.
And God still has a purpose.
That's why we have to be faithful in the present so that God could reveal His purpose in the future.
We don't change our belief because of the circumstance.
And Joseph gives us a great example of this, but it leads me to my second point, and the second point is this.
Your present faithfulness
Should influence your circumstances, not the other way around?
Let me say that again.
Your present faithfulness should influence your circumstances, not the other way around.
Another way to say that is this.
Your belief dictates the circumstance.
Your circumstance does not dictate your belief.
Students, we talked about this, but we stand firm and we find our identity in what?
In the Bible.
Your value comes from who?
from Christ alone.
In moments like this, in moments of uncertainty, this is when we put our faith to the test and we say, I'm gonna trust what I've read in here.
I'm gonna trust what I've learned over the years.
I'm gonna trust what God has said to me.
I'm gonna trust the Holy Spirit and I'm gonna stand on it.
Because in moments like this, if you don't trust this, then you're gonna let your feelings and your emotions dictate your faith, rather than you leaning into that faith and trust that the circumstance will turn out for your good.
Joseph, how could I do this immense evil?
The reality is this, we will face temptations and challenges where we are.
It's what we do during these times that will determine how God uses us in the future.
What do I mean by that?
I'm a firm believer that what you are walking through right now is not the end of your story.
I don't know what it is.
We all have so many different things we're walking through.
I'm walking through something myself in this very moment, back home.
But what I know is true and the reason I can be faithful in the present is because there were moments in my life in the past where I faced opposition and I faced certain things, even tragedy in my life and choosing to listen to God and hear from God and trusting God.
He built me up and he strengthened me in a way that I never would have gotten otherwise.
And how I responded in that moment when you fast forward to the future and I'm walking through another difficult season,
I look back on that moment and I see God's faithfulness and he strengthens me in the new season.
Is anybody with me on that?
But if we're not careful, if we don't learn from our presence and we're not faithful in the present, then when the thing comes in the future, our response will be, here we go again.
God hates me.
God doesn't see me and we begin to blame God and we pull away from God rather than leaning into him.
And I told you I would be honest and open this morning, and there was a moment in my life where this came to be full reality for me.
I was a junior in college.
But it started my freshman year of college.
I dated my high school sweetheart.
We were engaged right out of high school.
I do not recommend that, by the way.
Horrible idea.
But we thought it was a great idea.
We were gonna get engaged.
We got engaged on our senior trip.
We were with our parents.
That's lame.
But anyways.
I'm not bitter over it.
But we got engaged in the plan was this.
I was living two of my dreams.
I'd wanted to play college of baseball since I was eight years old.
I got a baseball scholarship.
I'll marry my high school sweetheart.
This is going to be amazing.
I'm so excited about this.
So we're going to go through our freshman year.
And then we were going to get married going into our sophomore year again.
Horrible idea.
Not sure what my parents were thinking.
But that was the plan.
I'm playing the best ball I've ever played since I was 11.
And 11 only because it was fun and it wasn't a game then.
It was just fun.
It was fun.
No pressure.
I beat a senior out at shortstop.
I was playing the best ball I'd ever played.
I was getting married in a couple months.
And then I caught her cheating on me with my best friend.
Thank you so much.
I caught her cheating on me five months before our wedding.
You're whistling now.
What do you hear this?
He was my best friend.
He was a groomsman in my wedding, and he was a starting center fielder on our team.
There it is.
I was devastated, 19 years old, and that dream was removed, and then a few weeks later I would have a season ending injury, and I'd lost my baseball, and I'd lost my relationship.
And in 19, that was my world, right?
I was devastated, I was battling depression, never even had any
inkling of depression or anxiety in my life, never had suicidal thoughts in my life, and then I wake up and I'm living in this moment of like, God, where are you?
Everything that I've done in my life was to pursue you, but I'm sitting here and I'm going, why are you allowing this to happen?
And then some circumstances happen, I get an opportunity, I transfer out of that school, and I get a second chance to start over.
And I'm in this new season, I'm in this new school, better opportunity, and unbelievable baseball.
We had 42 guys on the team.
We're about four deep in every position.
And so if you got to start in position, it was a big deal.
And I'd earned a starting position at shortstop, and I was just living my best life, honestly.
I was super excited.
I'm like, all right, God's giving me another chance.
Unfortunately, there was a women's basketball team at the college I went to and I met a young lady and we hit it off and this is about two and a half years after what I just shared.
And as you can imagine, I'm a little reserved.
I was a little reluctant on it but it just, in my mind it was just like, okay, it all makes sense.
Like God remove that, give me to this moment and we're all gonna start over and I remember us dating for about a year or so and then getting messages of like, you know,
What do you think about this?
And she'd slide a ring picture in and stuff like that.
And I'm like, whoa.
And so just like, I began to give my piece of my heart over in that way.
I never thought I'd do it again.
I come back from Chris's break.
She had already reported back because she plays basketball.
And literally the same thing happens.
I find out she's cheating on me.
And I said this in the first service.
To make it even worse, I'm a Yankees fan and he was a pitcher for the Red Sox.
So whatever.
Whatever, people.
And then he showed up two weeks later before he went to spring training to throw BP to us.
I'm like, you are awful.
And he stripped me out.
Anyway, so whatever.
I wasn't that good.
And then a few weeks later, we're on a road trip to Tyler, Texas.
I don't like Tyler, Texas.
Not because they've done anything to me necessarily, but the situation.
I'm still in second.
That was kind of my game play was stealing and stuff.
And so I'm still in second.
I never dove into second base.
Unsafe, hard to maneuver your body, et cetera.
But for whatever reason, I dive head first, shortstop lowers his knee, I hit him head on, and all I know is I wake up and being put into an ambulance, they think I broke my neck.
It's a big deal.
Now the reason I don't like Tyler Texas is what comes next.
They send me to the hospital.
We tell them that I'm highly allergic to a medication.
They're like, let's try it and see what happens.
So they gave it to me anyway.
Uh, and it about killed me.
Who's laughing now?
And I started having seizures and it was a bad, obviously at 21 years old, very, very traumatic.
And I remember going back to Arkansas and I'm in my dorm room and I'm sitting there and I'm just having this moment with God.
You ever been there?
And I'll never forget, I'm sitting there and I'm literally on my knees in my dorm room and I'm screaming at God.
I'm not an angry person.
I'm not an aggressive person.
I'm punting the floor, angry at God.
God, why would you allow this to happen to me?
You knew how hard it was the first time.
Why would you do this to me again?
I'm just letting Him have it.
Oh, and by the way, on top of that, I just found out that my grandfather, who's the rock of our family, the pioneer of faith in our family, just gets diagnosed with cancer and is about to die.
So I'm screaming.
I'm going, God, why would you allow me to go through this again?
And I'll never forget the revelation that He gave me as a junior in college in my dorm room alone.
And he said, well, when are you going to quit trying to rebuild your plan and your purpose and see that I'm trying to remove it for a purpose that's greater than what you ever thought?
It was in that moment.
He said, quit picking up the puzzle pieces that I'm intentionally removing so that you can be faithful in the present so that I can show you your purpose for the future.
And that conversation with God completely transformed the rest of my life.
That's the moment I surrendered to ministry.
That's the moment that I quit worrying about baseball and relationships.
Four years after this moment, I'd walk into Louisville, Kentucky, into a random Starbucks and I would meet who is now my wife.
completely out of nowhere because I understood that I was gonna be faithful in every present opportunity that moment forward.
Was the pain real?
Absolutely.
Was the devastation real?
But my perspective changed instead of blaming God.
I looked for God in it.
And my encouragement for you this morning is I don't know what you're walking through this morning.
I don't know what you've been through in the past that you haven't dealt with.
Maybe there's unforgiveness or there's bitterness, whatever it is, or maybe right now is the most difficult season of your life.
Don't do what I did.
Don't blame God, but lean into God because this is the only one flat out that can handle it.
You don't have the power to handle it.
You don't have enough charisma, enough knowledge, enough coot inside of you to handle it, but the power of the Holy Spirit that comes from Jesus Christ himself from the promise of the Father who lives inside of us gives us the opportunity to trust and to live a life where we never thought we could live.
And you're never gonna know that if you don't know what it says in here, which is why this whole weekend I've been putting these students to this because when they wake up and they're 21 years old in the dorm, I don't want them to call me or your pastors, I want them to look to Jesus.
But a lot of times as adults, we've got it all figured out and we go, yeah, I hope that's good for my kid, but we don't model it ourselves as men in the home.
And my prayer for all the men in the room is that you would look at your life and you would go, I'm going to disciple myself, I'm going to disciple my home to understand that we lean on Jesus in this household.
And we stand on the rock that is found in the Bible.
So moving on, what happens in Joseph's story?
He's now put in prison.
And we pick up in Genesis 39 verse 20.
And this is the moment that I'm honestly just questioning the leadership in Egypt right now because Joseph was an outcast.
He was brought into here and all of a sudden he goes to like all of these leadership, like the pipeline of leadership here is really messed up.
Okay.
And all the businessmen in the room are going, this just doesn't work people.
But what we find is Joseph is in prison, but he actually rises to leadership within the prison.
Check this out.
Verse 20, it says, but the Lord was with Joseph.
And he extended kindness to him.
He granted him favor with the prison warden.
The warden put all the prisoners who were in the prison under Joseph's authority.
Makes no sense.
And he was responsible for everything that was done there.
The warden did not bother with anything under Joseph's authority because the Lord was with him and the Lord made everything he did successful.
Holly favored son, sold into slavery.
Holly-favored slave put into prison.
Now he's literally leading the prison.
Our last point, we'll end with this.
Your present faithfulness will reveal God's purpose.
And I know that's repetitive, but I want us to lean into that this morning.
The reality is God's given us all the moment.
We all have an opportunity to step into our faith or to share our faith.
And Joseph is about to get his opportunity.
Because if I could summarize what happens while Joseph is in prison, there's some people in prison that have these dreams.
It's Pharaoh's cupbearer and Pharaoh's baker.
They have these dreams.
One is good.
The other one doesn't turn out so well for the other guy.
But Joseph interprets the dreams.
Those guys get out of prison and they move on, but they say, hey, because you've interpreted my dreams, I will remember you in the future.
Well, some time goes on.
Pharaoh has these dreams that he can't interpret.
He can't figure it out.
He's bringing in all these people to try to figure out what do these dreams mean?
Then they remember Joseph.
They bring Joseph in.
Joseph interprets the dream of Pharaoh and Joseph finds himself second in command in all of Egypt.
It's a crazy story.
He goes from slave, from a pit to leading the palace.
It's unbelievable.
But I think it's important what we see, you don't have to turn there, but Genesis 41 verse 38 gives us Pharaoh's response and what he saw in the life of Joseph, going back to his belief.
This is what was said of Joseph.
Pharaoh says, can we find anyone like this?
A man who has God's spirit in him.
Okay, the well-built and handsome thing was good, but this,
I hope and I pray that people say that we see God in him.
We see the spirit of God in him.
And I hope that's true of you, that when you interact with people, when you walk away, they say, can we find anyone like this?
A man or a woman whose God's spirit is in them.
So now Joseph has great influence in the crazy thing as the story comes full circle.
Do you remember the two dreams?
What did he say in the dreams?
One day you will what?
You will bow down and I will roll over you.
They have no clue where Joseph is right now.
But the two dreams that he interpreted will be seven years of greatness and seven years of famine.
So when the famine hit, everybody from all these different nations would come and they'd come because Joseph had a plan to store up things.
And then Joseph second in command looks out and he sees his brothers bowing down at his feet.
So in that moment, he chooses revenge.
He chooses bitterness.
No.
He sees purpose.
because he was faithful in all the highs and all the lows of his life.
And he looks down and he chooses forgiveness.
One of the most unbelievable responses in all the scripture we find in Genesis 50 verse 20, he says, what you plan for evil against me, God planned it for good to bring about the present result, the survival of many people.
So he goes from prison to a palace because he stayed faithful.
And as we end,
this morning and the man's going to come back up.
And I just want to have a time of response because here's the reality.
Joseph didn't know that the palace was coming.
All he knew that there was a pit, there was betrayal and there was prison.
And yet the Lord was still with Joseph in all of it.
And maybe this morning you don't see a palace in your life.
All you see is pain, confusion and disappointment.
I've been there.
For me, it was a dorm room.
It was wondering why everything I thought my life was going to happen seemed to be falling apart.
But what I couldn't see, God was building in me.
The pit wasn't the end.
The pit was just a preparation, people.
And the same God who was with Joseph and the pit is with each and every one of us right now, regardless of what we're walking through, whatever we brought in here, God is in it.
And your story isn't over.
Your season isn't wasted, but your future won't start until you begin to view your circumstance differently.
You've been listening to a message from First Baptist Church, which is all false.
For more information about First Baptist, including gathering times and locations,
Click the link in the show notes or go to fbcwf.org.
We'll see you next week.